[ ![Juju logo](//assets.ubuntu.com/sites/ubuntu/latest/u/img/logo.png) Juju
](https://juju.ubuntu.com/)

  - Jump to content
  - [Charms](https://juju.ubuntu.com/charms/)
  - [Features](https://juju.ubuntu.com/features/)
  - [Deploy](https://juju.ubuntu.com/deployment/)
  - [Resources](https://juju.ubuntu.com/resources/)
  - [Community](https://juju.ubuntu.com/community/)
  - [Install Juju](https://juju.ubuntu.com/download/)

Search: Search

## Juju documentation

LINKS

# Deploying Services

The fundamental point of Juju is that you can use it to deploy services through
the use of charms (the magic bits of code that make things just work). These
charms can be fetched from the charm store, stored in a local repository, or if
you are feeling clever, written by you. Just as there are different series of
Ubuntu ('precise', 'raring', etc), so there needs to be different series of
charms to take into account any subtle changes in the underlying OS. For the
most part you can forget about this, as Juju will always try to apply the most
relevant charm, so deploying can be straightforward and easy.

# Deploying from the Charm Store

In most cases, you will want to deploy charms by fetching them directly from the
charm store. This ensures that you get the relevant, up to date version of the
charm and "everything just works". To deploy a charm like this you can just
specify:

    
    
    juju deploy mysql

Running this will do exactly what you expect - fetch the latest juju charm for
the series you are running and then use the bootstrap environment to initiate a
new instance and deploy MySQL

Juju usefully supports a system of namespaces that means you can actually deploy
charms from a variety of sources. The default source is the charm store. The
above command is the same as running:

    
    
    juju deploy cs:precise/mysql

which follows the format:

    
    
    &LT;repository&GT;:&LT;series&GT;/&LT;service&GT;

# Deploying from a local repository

There are many cases when you may wish to deploy charms from a local filesytem
source rather than the charm store:

  - When testing charms you have written.
  - When you have modified store charms for some reason.
  - When you don't have direct internet access.

... and probably a lot more times which you can imagine yourselves.

Juju can be pointed at a local directory to source charms from using the
`\--repository=&LT;path/to/files&GT;` switch like this:

    
    
    juju deploy --repository=/usr/share/charms/ local:precise/vsftpd

You can also make use of standard filesystem shortcuts, so the following
examples are also valid:

    
    
    juju deploy --repository=. local:haproxy
    juju deploy --repository ~/charms/ local:wordpress

__Note:__ Specifying a local repository makes juju look there __first__, but if
the relevant charm is not found in that repository, it will fall back to
fetching it from the charm store. If you wish to check where a charm was
installed from, it is listed in the `juju status` output.

# A note about caching...

After juju resolves a charm and its dependencies, it bundles them and deploys
them to a machine provider charm cache/repository (e.g. ~/.juju/charmcache).
This allows the same charm to be deployed to multiple machines repeatably and
with minimal network transfers.

# Deploying to specific machines and containers

Juju has native support for specifying which machine a charm should be deployed
to. This is useful for a few reasons. The most obvious reason is to save money
when deploying to a public cloud. Instead of having one machine per unit we can
consolidate services.

In this example we use the `\--constraints` flag to fire up a bootstrap node
with 4G of RAM so we can deploy other services to it by using the `\--to`
command:

    
    
    juju bootstrap --constraints="mem=4G"
    juju deploy --to 0 mysql
    juju deploy --to 0 rabbitmq-server
    

As you can see from the example we've deployed mysql and rabbitmq-server "to"
node 0.

You can also deploy to containers:

    
    
    juju deploy mysql --to 24/lxc/3
    juju deploy mysql --to lxc:25
    

In the previous example we deployed MySQL to container #3 on machine #24.
Similarly the 2nd example deploys MySQL to a new container on machine #25.

Note that you need to know the identifier of the machine that you are going to
`deploy --to` â€“ in all deployments, machine 0 is always the bootstrap node so
the above example works nicely. Doing a `juju status` will show you a list of
all the machines and their machine numbers for you to decide what to deploy to.

The `add-unit` command also supports the `\--to` option, so it's now possible to
specifically target machines when expanding service capacity:

    
    
    juju deploy --constraints="mem=4G" openstack-dashboard
    juju add-unit --to 1 rabbitmq-server
    

I should now have a second machine running both the openstack-dashboard service
and a second unit of the rabbitmq-server service:

    
    
    juju status

Which results in the following

    
    
    machines:
      "0":
        agent-state: started
        agent-version: 1.11.4
        dns-name: 10.5.0.44
        instance-id: 99a06a9b-a9f9-4c4a-bce3-3b87fbc869ee
        series: precise
        hardware: arch=amd64 cpu-cores=2 mem=4096M
      "1":
        agent-state: started
        agent-version: 1.11.4
        dns-name: 10.5.0.45
        instance-id: d1c6788a-d120-44c3-8c55-03aece997fd7
        series: precise
        hardware: arch=amd64 cpu-cores=2 mem=4096M
    services:
      mysql:
        charm: cs:precise/mysql-26
        exposed: false
        relations:
          cluster:
          - mysql
        units:
          mysql/0:
            agent-state: started
            agent-version: 1.11.4
            machine: "0"
            public-address: 10.5.0.44
      openstack-dashboard:
        charm: cs:precise/openstack-dashboard-9
        exposed: false
        relations:
          cluster:
          - openstack-dashboard
        units:
          openstack-dashboard/0:
            agent-state: started
            agent-version: 1.11.4
            machine: "1"
            public-address: 10.5.0.45
      rabbitmq-server:
        charm: cs:precise/rabbitmq-server-12
        exposed: false
        relations:
          cluster:
          - rabbitmq-server
        units:
          rabbitmq-server/0:
            agent-state: started
            agent-version: 1.11.4
            machine: "0"
            public-address: 10.5.0.44
          rabbitmq-server/1:
            agent-state: started
            agent-version: 1.11.4
            machine: "1"
            public-address: 10.5.0.45
    

These two features make it much easier to deploy complex services such as
OpenStack which use a large number of charms on a limited number of physical
servers.

## Considerations

Charms are running without any separation, so its entirely possible for Charms
to stomp all over each others configuration files and try to bind to the same
network ports. We are working to containerize everything so that this does not
happen and every service is in its own container, but this work is not yet
complete.

While the "add-unit" command supports the `\--to` option, you can elect not use
`\--to` when doing an "add-unit" to scale out the service on its own node.

    
    
    juju add-unit rabbitmq-server
    

This will allow you to save money when you need it by using --to, but also
horizontally scale out on dedicated machines when you need to.

## References and Examples

  - [ Scaling Down in the Cloud with Juju](http://www.jorgecastro.org/2013/07/31/deploying-wordpress-to-the-cloud-with-juju/)
  - [ Targeted Machine Deployment with Juju](http://javacruft.wordpress.com/2013/07/25/juju-put-it-there-please/)

  - ## [Juju](/)

    - [Charms](/charms)
    - [Features](/features)
    - [Deployment](/deployment)
  - ## [Resources](/resources)

    - [Overview](/resources/juju-overview/)
    - [Documentation](/docs/)
    - [The Juju web UI](/resources/the-juju-gui/)
    - [The charm store](/docs/authors-charm-store.html)
    - [Tutorial](/docs/getting-started.html#test)
    - [Videos](/resources/videos/)
    - [Easy tasks for new developers](/resources/easy-tasks-for-new-developers/)
  - ## [Community](/community)

    - [Juju Blog](/community/blog/)
    - [Events](/events/)
    - [Weekly charm meeting](/community/weekly-charm-meeting/)
    - [Charmers](/community/charmers/)
    - [Write a charm](/docs/authors-charm-writing.html)
    - [Help with documentation](/docs/contributing.html)
    - [File a bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/juju-core/+filebug)
    - [Juju Labs](/labs/)
  - ## [Try Juju](https://jujucharms.com/sidebar/)

    - [Charm store](https://jujucharms.com/)
    - [Download Juju](/download/)

(C) 2013 Canonical Ltd. Ubuntu and Canonical are registered trademarks of
[Canonical Ltd](http://canonical.com).

